The next thing that I wanna
actually show is context.
I keep on showing this demo where we
pull the signals out and just go, look,
it's global, that's fine.
But when you have things to consider,
like server side rendering,
you might not want to have
a truly global state.
Because it could be
shared between requests.
So for that it still makes sense
to put data in your app tree.
And for
that what we do is we use something called
context which allows us
to define a provider.
And what a provider does is it basically
is a way of injecting state into our tree.
And then somewhere further down
in the tree, we can basically use
another primitive to pull that state
out and be able to read it directly.
So I kind of made a very simple counter
provider here where I created a signal.
And I'm keeping Solid's convention of
returning an array where there's a count.
And then made a few named operations
like an increment and decrement.
This is a very common pattern in Solid, where
instead of passing the setter straight
through you might actually make
a specific update functions, right?
So this is a simple counter.
And then our provider just
renders its children in between.
And essentially somewhere further down,
we have this nested component that
wants to be able to use our provider.
That's the idea here.
So to get started with a provider,
all we have to do is decide where
we want to inject it in our code.
So what I'm gonna do here is I've
got the CounterProvider imported.
And I'm just going to,
sorry, CounterProvider, and
we're gonna wrap our whole app with it.
It's very common to have
like global providers,
so this way now our context is
available to the whole app.
And then inside our
specific nested component,
what I did was the way context works
is you create a context object.
And then you generally kinda wrap your own
provider from that created context object.
But there's a useContext that
lets you take that context and
use it in that specific scope.
And I've just wrapped this in a used
counter for convention and for
cleanliness.
And what this lets us do is even though
this nested component it's much further
down in the tree.
It's not up here, it's in this other
component because it's apparent to it.
We have the ability to basically get
our count, get our increment and
decrement functions from our counter.
And then, We
have the ability to use our count signal.
And this can be a store,
you can put whatever you want in there.
And then we have the ability to
go onClick, let's increment.
onClick, let's decrement.
And if all went well, we have the state
now being injected from above.
So this is this very powerful thing.
It's just important to kinda note that,
in this case,
it's not just calling the function
here and passing the value.
You're actually creating the reactivity
that you wanna pass through.
So between stores and signals, which can
be used in and outside the components,
we now have ability to kind of
inject kind of global state.
It can be hierarchical, you can use it for
parts of the app, you can use it for
the whole app.
So let's you can manage state more
independently of the component tree.
And it's important to note here there,
is a no performance downside of using
this approach, if you think about it.
Because this doesn't cause any
children to ever rerender.
Just because this signal up here
at the top of the app changed,
it doesn't mean we have to trigger
rerendering the rest of the page.
We're just passing a signal through.
So like before, where our components
literally all updated independently
with all the signals,
it's the same thing here.
You can put as much state
as you want in the context.
You can do updates multiple times
a second, 60 FPS in your context.
You're not gonna have any problems here.
It's a single mechanism and
it's super performant.
And you can start seeing with these kind
of powers, we actually can basically
do almost all state management within
Solid without a third party library.
But some people do wanna
use a third party library.
Maybe Redux or something, or
Zustand these days.
And you can do that with Solid, because
we have a little trick up our sleeves.
Which is I made a very simple
use Redux wrapper here.
But what we do essentially
is we can get a store.
And if you're familiar with Redux,
the store has a getState() function.
So I'm just passing a Redux
store into this useRedux hook.
And the whole key here is their stores
have a subscribe function that whenever
they update, they call this function
with the new data, essentially.
And this could be RxJS, this could be
any third party immutable data store.
Solid has, for the stores,
I called it state for
some reason, but this is the store here,
a reconcile modifier.
And if you do a reconcile modifier,
you can pass large immutable data states.
And the reconcile function
will do a data diff for you.
So it will find the specific key data
points that have changed fine grained.
And then the store which
is already fine grained,
already tied to the specific updates,
will update.
So if you have a whole list of users.
You get some new data from a API call,
fresh data, it will diff the data,
realize that only the street
name on that one street changed.
And then the store will notify the UI
to update that one point in the DOM.
So there is a diffing mechanism when
we need to fallback to it when using
stores.
So we have this ability to
to do kinda similar diffing.
And actually test this and
benchmarks regularly against VDOM
libraries for these kind of cases.
This our diffing performance is very similar
to a virtual DOM library called Inferno.
Just kind of get an idea of the kind
of cost or overhead of using reconcile.
In a lot of cases this kind of
logic is gonna be hidden in your
integration with a third party,
like XState.
We've been working with XState to
get an XState Solid integration.
Reconcile and the stores
are kind of underneath the hood.
And then you just use XState as
you normally would use XState,
except whenever the state changes,
fine-grained updates.
Okay, that's basically it for stores,
and global statement in Solid.
It'll work with the tools you already use,
plus the inbuilt stuff is already
quite capable on its own.